Name: kunming zhu

Course: COMSC-110-1021
0. 
revise averageAge-algorithm.txt that we developed in class to work with additional test cases.

1. Copy each of the following parts into file exercise1.txt and complete.

1a. Explain in words what are the 3 control structures and how each of the 3 control structures 
works in general.

1b. Explain in words what are the 3 kinds of programming errors and give examples.

1c. What are the 5 functions of all computers?

1d. Explain in words what is a statement and what is an expression and what is the difference.

1e. What are the 2 major categories of software and the 3 subcategories of each.

1f. What are the 3 language translators and how do they work? They translate what to what?

2. Using the course algorithm template, write a complete algorithm to calculate the average 
height of everyone in the classroom. Name your algorithm file: averageHeight-algorithm.txt
3. 
Please submit the following files:
averageAge-algorithm.txt
averageHeight-algorithm.txt
exercise1.txt




1a— sequential: one by one by the order of them.
    
    selection: make decisions to choose.
    
    repetition: come back to some line to loop and repeat.



1b— syntax: grammar issues are made by programmers. Such as spelling issues and formation issues.
    
    logic: logic issues are made by programmers. Such as comparing a, b and c which is greater, but only compare a and b forget c.
            execution: things computers cannot do. Such as 10 divid 0. 



1c— input, processing, output, storage, communication



1d— a statement is one complete instruction, but it may be on more than one line, and it usually ends in a “;”.
    
    a expression is a part of a statement.  



1e— application 1. Productivity 2. Education 3. Entertainment 
    
    system 1. Operating 2. Utilities 3. Language 



1f— compiler. It checks syntax issues totally first. If there is no more syntax issues, it execute the program.
    
    interpreter. It checks the program line by line and execute the program at the same time.
    
    assembler. Low level language, and it is special. Each assembler language is specific for a particular computer.

